chronology of the appearance of different systems
in a certain way that
allow for community. The very first communication that appeared is what we call an autocrine communication. Imagine a small cell and around it, what do I have? I have an environment. I have a membrane and I have another environment. So what does the cell do? It ejects a fluid outside of itself. This fluid, in history, very quickly, it created a small receptor on its membrane, a small receptor that I enlarge. We call it glycocalyx, in other words, it's sugar, which means that this fluid that it ejected, it recovers it,
it takes it back, and it puts it back into its environment. That means it is informed of itself. It's almost a philosophical level, when we're going to enter the... tissue to first know how we are, we started this morning by three minutes of settling down and simply making contact with our body, making contact with our breathing, making contact with our husband, to see how we are today. I am, I don't know, I am joyful today, I am, I don't know, maybe some are...
Maybe some are elevated, maybe some are very enthusiastic, I don't know what your state is that belongs to you.
But it's important to recognize that state.
This is an autocrine communication with yourself.
But it happens at the cellular level.
It's the first communication.
Then, the system evolved and it made what we call the second type of communication,
which is always the same as the first.
That's all.
will be dependent on this type of information.
That means I'm going to have two cells.
I have a second cell.
It emits a fluid.
It emits a small fluid.
And my neighboring cell, right next to it,
receives this fluid.
It's a communication.
Paracrine, next to.
it is the fastest communication that exists in the body and that is constantly used,
continually used in your homeostasis system. The system there is doing well and then it will evolve and it will form a package of multicellular cells.
The idea is that I am always looking for one thing in life, and that is food. Here I have a cell, you see, and here.
It's full of cells.
I function well, autocrine, paracrine, I'm cool.
Only, here, I've already reached, you see, because in the group, I'm stronger.
Transmission, autocrine, paracrine, my friend, my neighbor, and I arrive like that, you see, and I...
And when it gets here, well, I'm rubbed.
So, I am no longer effective for my system.
Primarily, I develop a tube to be effective in the system.
It's just an adaptation scheme.
What did I do?
I created.
Like a system.
Why?
In the information, I can distribute it.
That means autocrine, paracrine,
what we call the primitive digestive tract.
That it's only after a primitive digestive system
that I will develop around me, all around,
a network here.
which we call the connective system between my cells and it's only when I have a connective network
that I will develop a circulatory system, so I will further improve
exchanges, and it's only when I have a circulatory system
that I will be able to develop an endocrine system, why? Because the cell can release a substance
that will go into the connective system of the circulatory system and be distributed remotely.
Endocrine, afterwards, when I function well in my network,
I start looking for things, so I create the first organs.
One of the very first organs that will develop is a cardiac pump.
I will develop in my network a system to better distribute.
more quickly a system to the contrary. Yes,
I will only have the appearance of a system
what we call neuro-enteric,
primitive neuro-enteric.
That means that
I will develop here
first a system
the information comes in,
I have to close,
then afterwards I will have to open the parasympathetic system.
I'm going to start getting more complex.
I'm going to make an orthopedic system.
Then, I will simply have to improve my movement in space.
And then, I will have to, in this movement, develop a sensitive system.
Then, only develop a much more centered, skeletal system.
And then, my limbs.
So, this is a whole appearance.
in the chronology almost superimposed between phylogenesis and ontogenesis.
That means that, for example, a child who comes with a motor development problem,
I always have to go see what happened before.
Many people, when they have that, they do cranial work, for example.
Whereas if you look at the chronology, you see that you must first go into the digestive system,
or connective, or circulatory.
I think that's a bit of the strength we have in us.
Someone who comes with a woman,
who comes with a thyroid problem.
Okay, thyroid, I'm endocrine.
Are we agreed?
I'm in that network.
Well, I have to go see what happened before.
And very often, I have to go as far as the digestive system.
So that means that many, many corrections
will be given in life.
If you look, that means...
also that your first brain is enteric. It is not at all here. And
that this developed logically at the beginning for it. But we have developed so much that we have lost that we are cut off. It still shows that this chronology here is
important and that it must be taken in this sense. At the same time, we will see that in
the ontogenetic development that we will do, it will somehow follow. Even
we won't see it in appearance first every time I could put you back on it